feat: add `blas/base/drot` (#1823)
stdlib-js/stdlib: lib/node_modules/@stdlib/blas/base/drot/README.md

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2024 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# drot

> > Applies a plane rotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Apply a plane rotation.
```

Applies a plane rotation.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ] );

drot( x.length, x, 1, y, 1, 1.0, 0.0 );
// x => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ]
// y => <Float64Array>[ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ]
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **N**: number of indexed elements.
-   **x**: first input [`Float64Array`][mdn-float64array].
-   **strideX**: index increment for `x`.
-   **y**: second input [`Float64Array`][mdn-float64array].
-   **strideY**: index increment for `y`.
-   **c**: double precision cosine.
-   **s**: double precision sin.

The `N` and stride parameters determine how values in the strided arrays are accessed at runtime. For example, to apply plane rotation for the strided arrays
in reverse order.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ] );

drot( x.length, x, 2, y, 2, 0.707, 0.707 );
// x => <Float64Array>[ 5.656, 2.0, 8.484, 4.0, 11.312, 6.0 ]

> // y => <Float64Array>[ 4.242, 8.0, 4.241999999999999, 10.0, 4.241999999999999, 12.0 ]

Reviewer: I am not sure if we shall write it this precisely, @kgryte would you mind addressing this?

```

Note that indexing is relative to the first index. To introduce an offset, use [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views.

<!-- eslint-disable stdlib/capitalized-comments -->

> 

Reviewer: I guess you are missing an example, refer https://github.com/stdlib-js/stdlib/blob/develop/lib/node_modules/%40stdlib/blas/base/dswap/README.md?plain=1#L73C1-L88C4

#### drot.ndarray( N, x, strideX, offsetX, y, strideY, offsetY, c, s )

> Applies a plane rotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applies a plane rotation using alternative indexing semantics.
```

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ] );

drot.ndarray( x.length, x, 1, 0, y, 1, 0, 1.0, 0.0 );
// x => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ]
// y => <Float64Array>[ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ]
```

The function has the following additional parameters:

-   **offsetX**: starting index for `x`.
-   **offsetY**: starting index for `y`.

> While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, for offset of two in x rotate every other value in `x` starting from the second value,...,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to apply rotation for every other value in `x` starting from second value,...,
```

var y = new Float64Array( [ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ] );

drot.ndarray( 4, x, 0, 2, y, 0, 2, 0.707, 0.707 );
// x => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 2.0, -2.998188273612, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ]
// y => <Float64Array>[ 7.0, 8.0, -8.994564820835999, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ]
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   If `N <= 0`, both functions leave `x` and `y` unchanged.
-   `drot()` corresponds to the [BLAS][blas] level 1 function [`drot`][drot].

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/array/discrete-uniform' );
var drot = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/drot' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};
var x = discreteUniform( 10, 0, 500, opts );
console.log( x );

var y = discreteUniform( x.length, 0, 255, opts );
console.log( y );

// Applies a plane rotation :
drot( x.length, x, 1, y, 1, 0.707, 0.707 );
console.log( x );
console.log( y );
```

</section>

<!-- /.examples -->

<!-- Section for related `stdlib` packages. Do not manually edit this section, as it is automatically populated. -->

<section class="related">

* * *

## See Also

> -   <span class="package-name">[`@stdlib/blas/drot`][@stdlib/blas/drot]</span><span class="delimiter">: </span><span class="description">interchange two double-precision floating-point vectors.</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   <span class="package-name">[`@stdlib/blas/dswap`][@stdlib/blas/dswap]</span><span class="delimiter">: </span><span class="description">interchange two double-precision floating-point vectors.</span>
```

</section>

<!-- /.related -->

<!-- Section for all links. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="links">

[blas]: http://www.netlib.org/blas

[drot]: https://www.netlib.org/lapack/explore-html/d1/d45/group__rot_gae48ef017306866ac2d5a8c5a52617858.html#gae48ef017306866ac2d5a8c5a5261785

[mdn-float64array]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Float64Array

[mdn-typed-array]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray

<!-- <related-links> -->

> [@stdlib/blas/drot]: https://github.com/stdlib-js/stdlib/tree/develop/lib/node_modules/%40stdlib/blas/drot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[@stdlib/blas/dswap]: https://github.com/stdlib-js/stdlib/tree/develop/lib/node_modules/%40stdlib/blas/dswap
```

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2024 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# drot

> Apply a plane rotation.

> <section class="usage">

Reviewer 2: Let's also add an introduction section before this section.

```suggestion
<section class="intro">

This BLAS level 1 routine applies a real plane rotation to real vectors. The plane rotation is applied to `N` points, where the points to be rotated are contained in vectors `x` and `y` and where the cosine and sine of the angle of rotation are `c` and `s`, respectively. The operation is as follows:

<!-- <equation class="equation" label="eq:drot" align="center" raw="\begin{bmatrix}x_i \\ y_i\end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} c & s \\ -s & c\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} x_i \\ y_i \end{bmatrix}" alt="Plane rotation"> -->

<!-- </equation> -->

where `x_i` and `y_i` are the individual elements on which the rotation is applied.

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<section class="usage">
```

## Usage

```javascript
var drot = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/drot' );
```

#### drot( N, x, strideX, y, strideY, c, s )

Applies a plane rotation.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ] );

drot( x.length, x, 1, y, 1, 1.0, 0.0 );
// x => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ]
// y => <Float64Array>[ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ]
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **N**: number of indexed elements.
-   **x**: first input [`Float64Array`][mdn-float64array].
-   **strideX**: index increment for `x`.
-   **y**: second input [`Float64Array`][mdn-float64array].
-   **strideY**: index increment for `y`.

> -   **c**: double precision cosine.

Reviewer 2: I was not able to find definitions for `c` and `s`. From where do these parameter descriptions derive?

Reviewer 2: Okay. I find it. Let's make a change here.

> -   **c**: double precision cosine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   **c**: cosine of the angle of rotation.
```

> -   **s**: double precision sin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   **s**: sine of the angle of rotation.
```

limitations under the License.

-->

# drot

> Apply a plane rotation.

<section class="intro">

This BLAS level 1 routine applies a real plane rotation to real double-precision floating-point vectors. The plane rotation is applied to `N` points, where the points to be rotated are contained in vectors `x` and `y` and where the cosine and sine of the angle of rotation are `c` and `s`, respectively. The operation is as follows:

<!-- <equation class="equation" label="eq:drot" align="center" raw="\begin{bmatrix}x_i \\ y_i\end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix} c & s \\ -s & c\end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix} x_i \\ y_i \end{bmatrix}" alt="Plane rotation"> -->

<!-- </equation> -->

where `x_i` and `y_i` are the individual elements on which the rotation is applied.

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var drot = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/drot' );
```

#### drot( N, x, strideX, y, strideY, c, s )

Applies a plane rotation.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ] );

drot( x.length, x, 1, y, 1, 0.8, 0.6 );

> // x => <Float64Array>[ ~4.400, ~5.800, 7.2, 8.6, 10.0 ]

Reviewer 2: Why the two trailing zeros? Should it just be `~4.4`? Meaning, are you wanting to convey an approximate value to one decimal point? Otherwise, I read `~4.400` as approximating, e.g., `4.40023456`.

Author: Yes it should be ~4.4 only, I missed that.

Reviewer 2: It applies here and elsewhere throughout this PR.

// y => <Float64Array>[ ~4.200, 4.4, 4.600, 4.800, 5.0 ]
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **N**: number of indexed elements.
-   **x**: first input [`Float64Array`][mdn-float64array].
-   **strideX**: index increment for `x`.
-   **y**: second input [`Float64Array`][mdn-float64array].
-   **strideY**: index increment for `y`.
-   **c**: cosine of the angle of rotation.
-   **s**: sine of the angle of rotation.

> The `N` and stride parameters determine how values in the strided arrays are accessed at runtime. For example, to apply plane rotation to elements skipping every alternate element, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `N` and stride parameters determine how values in the strided arrays are accessed at runtime. For example, to apply a plane rotation to every other element, 
```

// x => <Float64Array>[ ~5.7, 2.0, ~8.5, 4.0, ~11.3, 6.0 ]
// y => <Float64Array>[ ~4.2, 8.0, ~4.2, 10.0, ~4.2, 12.0 ]
```

Note that indexing is relative to the first index. To introduce an offset, use [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views.

<!-- eslint-disable stdlib/capitalized-comments -->

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

// Initial arrays...
var x0 = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var y0 = new Float64Array( [ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ] );

// Create offset views...
var x1 = new Float64Array( x0.buffer, x0.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT*1 ); // start at 2nd element
var y1 = new Float64Array( y0.buffer, y0.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT*3 ); // start at 4th element

drot( 3, x1, -2, y1, 1, 0.8, 0.6 );
// x0 => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, ~8.8, 3.0, 9.8, 5.0, 10.8 ]
// y0 => <Float64Array>[ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 4.4, 6.4, ~8.4 ]
```

#### drot.ndarray( N, x, strideX, offsetX, y, strideY, offsetY, c, s )

Applies a plane rotation using alternative indexing semantics.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ] );

> drot.ndarray( x.length, x, 1, 1, y, 1, 1, 0.8, 0.6 );

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
drot.ndarray( x.length, x, 1, 0, y, 1, 0, 0.8, 0.6 );
```

The example return values need to be updated. You cannot have `x.length` and offsets greater than `0`.

> // x => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, ~5.800, 7.2, 8.6, 10.0 ]

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above.

// y => <Float64Array>[ 6.0, 4.4, ~4.6, ~4.8, 5.0 ]
```

The function has the following additional parameters:

-   **offsetX**: starting index for `x`.
-   **offsetY**: starting index for `y`.

> While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to apply a plane rotation to every other element starting from second element,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to apply a plane rotation to every other element starting from the second element,
```

> While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to apply rotation to every other value in `x` starting from second value,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to apply a plane rotation to every other element starting from second element,
```

> While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to apply rotation to every other value in `x` starting from second value,

Reviewer 2: Note: based on how the example is updated below, we need to update the second sentence.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ] );

> drot.ndarray( x.length, x, 2, 2, y, 2, 2, 0.8, 0.6 );

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
drot.ndarray( 3, x, 2, 1, y, 2, 1, 0.8, 0.6 );
```

Example return values need to be updated. Again, `N` cannot be `x.length` based on the parameterization. Furthermore, the text above says "starting from the second element", and JS uses zero-based indexing.

Author: Sure, Athan, I will review all the examples once and update them accordingly..

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

> drot.ndarray( 4, x, 0, 2, y, 0, 2, 0.707, 0.707 );

Reviewer 2: Wait. I see. This example is just wrong. You have set the strides to `0`. Why? This means that the rotation is applied to the same value 4 times, as `N` is `4`.

// x => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 2.0, 7.8, 4.0, 10.6, 6.0 ]
// y => <Float64Array>[ 7.0, 8.0, 5.4, 10.0, ~5.8, 12.0 ]
```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   If `N <= 0`, both functions leave `x` and `y` unchanged.
-   `drot()` corresponds to the [BLAS][blas] level 1 function [`drot`][drot].

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/array/discrete-uniform' );
var drot = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/drot' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};
var x = discreteUniform( 10, 0, 500, opts );
console.log( x );

var y = discreteUniform( x.length, 0, 255, opts );
console.log( y );

> // Apply a plane rotation :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Apply a plane rotation:
```

The `N` and stride parameters determine how values in the strided arrays are accessed at runtime. For example, to apply plane rotation to elements in the strided arrays in reverse order

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ] );

drot( x.length, x, 2, y, 2, 0.707, 0.707 );
// x => <Float64Array>[ 5.656, 2.0, 8.484, 4.0, 11.312, 6.0 ]
// y => <Float64Array>[ 4.242, 8.0, ~4.242, 10.0, ~4.242, 12.0 ]
```

Note that indexing is relative to the first index. To introduce an offset, use [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views.

<!-- eslint-disable stdlib/capitalized-comments -->

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

// Initial arrays...
var x0 = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var y0 = new Float64Array( [ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ] );

// Create offset views...
var x1 = new Float64Array( x0.buffer, x0.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT*1 ); // start at 2nd element
var y1 = new Float64Array( y0.buffer, y0.BYTES_PER_ELEMENT*3 ); // start at 4th element

drot( 3, x1, -2, y1, 1, 0.707, 0.707 );

> // x0 => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 9.898, 3.0, 10.604999999999999, 5.0, 11.312 ]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// x0 => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 9.898, 3.0, ~10.605, 5.0, 11.312 ]
```

Are the values `9.898` and others exact? If not, then they should be documented as approximate using `~`.

> // y0 => <Float64Array>[ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 2.8279999999999994, 4.949, 7.07 ]

Reviewer 2: Same comment.

```

#### drot.ndarray( N, x, strideX, offsetX, y, strideY, offsetY, c, s )

Applies a plane rotation using alternative indexing semantics.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ] );

drot.ndarray( x.length, x, 1, 0, y, 1, 0, 1.0, 0.0 );
// x => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ]

> // y => <Float64Array>[ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ]

Reviewer 2: The return values here are wrong. They are just the input array values.

```

The function has the following additional parameters:

-   **offsetX**: starting index for `x`.
-   **offsetY**: starting index for `y`.

> While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to apply rotation for every other value in `x` starting from second value,...,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While [`typed array`][mdn-typed-array] views mandate a view offset based on the underlying buffer, the offset parameters support indexing semantics based on starting indices. For example, to apply rotation to every other value in `x` starting from second value,
```

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ] );

drot.ndarray( 4, x, 0, 2, y, 0, 2, 0.707, 0.707 );
// x => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 2.0, -2.998188273612, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ]

> // y => <Float64Array>[ 7.0, 8.0, -8.994564820835999, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ]

Reviewer 2: Is this right? Of the values on which the operation applies, only a couple of values are updated? If so, we should update `c` and `s` to something more "interesting"; otherwise, it is confusing to readers as they need to determine why the values are the same. Was it because of `N` or because of `c` and `s` or because of the nature of the affected values, etc etc?

```

</section>

<!-- /.usage -->

<section class="notes">

## Notes

-   If `N <= 0`, both functions leave `x` and `y` unchanged.
-   `drot()` corresponds to the [BLAS][blas] level 1 function [`drot`][drot].

</section>

<!-- /.notes -->

<section class="examples">

## Examples

<!-- eslint no-undef: "error" -->

```javascript
var discreteUniform = require( '@stdlib/random/array/discrete-uniform' );
var drot = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/drot' );

var opts = {
    'dtype': 'float64'
};
var x = discreteUniform( 10, 0, 500, opts );
console.log( x );

var y = discreteUniform( x.length, 0, 255, opts );
console.log( y );

> // Applies a plane rotation :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Apply a plane rotation :
```

drot( x.length, x, 1, y, 1, 0.707, 0.707 );
console.log( x );
console.log( y );
```

</section>

<!-- /.examples -->

<!-- Section for related `stdlib` packages. Do not manually edit this section, as it is automatically populated. -->

<section class="related">

> 
> * * *
> 
> ## See Also
> 
> -   <span class="package-name">[`@stdlib/blas/drot`][@stdlib/blas/drot]</span><span class="delimiter">: </span><span class="description">applies plane rotation.</span>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

As mentioned in the comment above, don't manually edit this section. For new packages, remove the contents entirely.

</section>

<!-- /.related -->

<!-- Section for all links. Make sure to keep an empty line after the `section` element and another before the `/section` close. -->

<section class="links">

[blas]: http://www.netlib.org/blas

[drot]: https://www.netlib.org/lapack/explore-html/d1/d45/group__rot_gae48ef017306866ac2d5a8c5a52617858.html#gae48ef017306866ac2d5a8c5a5261785

[mdn-float64array]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Float64Array

[mdn-typed-array]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/TypedArray

> <!-- <related-links> -->
> 
> [@stdlib/blas/drot]: https://github.com/stdlib-js/stdlib/tree/develop/lib/node_modules/%40stdlib/blas/drot
> 
> <!-- </related-links> -->
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Same thing. Remove this from new packages.

<!--

@license Apache-2.0

Copyright (c) 2024 The Stdlib Authors.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

-->

# drot

> Apply a plane rotation.

<section class="intro">

> This BLAS level 1 routine applies a real plane rotation to real vectors. The plane rotation is applied to `N` points, where the points to be rotated are contained in vectors `x` and `y` and where the cosine and sine of the angle of rotation are `c` and `s`, respectively. The operation is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This BLAS level 1 routine applies a real plane rotation to real double-precision floating-point vectors. The plane rotation is applied to `N` points, where the points to be rotated are contained in vectors `x` and `y` and where the cosine and sine of the angle of rotation are `c` and `s`, respectively. The operation is as follows:
```

<!-- </equation> -->

where `x_i` and `y_i` are the individual elements on which the rotation is applied.

</section>

<!-- /.intro -->

<section class="usage">

## Usage

```javascript
var drot = require( '@stdlib/blas/base/drot' );
```

#### drot( N, x, strideX, y, strideY, c, s )

Applies a plane rotation.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ] );

drot( x.length, x, 1, y, 1, 1.0, 0.0 );
// x => <Float64Array>[ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0 ]
// y => <Float64Array>[ 6.0, 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0 ]
```

The function has the following parameters:

-   **N**: number of indexed elements.
-   **x**: first input [`Float64Array`][mdn-float64array].
-   **strideX**: index increment for `x`.
-   **y**: second input [`Float64Array`][mdn-float64array].
-   **strideY**: index increment for `y`.
-   **c**: cosine of the angle of rotation.
-   **s**: sine of the angle of rotation.

> The `N` and stride parameters determine how values in the strided arrays are accessed at runtime. For example, to apply plane rotation for the strided arrays
> in reverse order.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `N` and stride parameters determine how values in the strided arrays are accessed at runtime. For example, to apply plane rotation to elements in the strided arrays in reverse order
```

Don't manually break lines.

```javascript
var Float64Array = require( '@stdlib/array/float64' );

var x = new Float64Array( [ 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 ] );
var y = new Float64Array( [ 7.0, 8.0, 9.0, 10.0, 11.0, 12.0 ] );

> drot( x.length, x, 2, y, 2, 0.707, 0.707 );

Reviewer 2: You're not applying the rotation in reverse order. You are skipping every other element. Either this example needs to be updated or the text above needs to be updated.

// x => <Float64Array>[ 5.656, 2.0, 8.484, 4.0, 11.312, 6.0 ]

> // y => <Float64Array>[ 4.242, 8.0, 4.241999999999999, 10.0, 4.241999999999999, 12.0 ]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// y => <Float64Array>[ 4.242, 8.0, ~4.242, 10.0, ~4.242, 12.0 ]
```

@Pranavchiku You can use tildes to indicate approximation.
